Sitting with Bob Bell, class of 65 in the conference room of the Clayton Williams Center.
Bob, to begin this discussion, would you summarize your growing up, background, hometown, etc.
before you came to A&M as a freshman?
I was born in San Antonio December the 3rd of 1942.
My father was in the service at that time and that during the war I lived in Hempstead, Texas where my mother was from and her parents lived there.
And that after the war that she was an only surviving child and that when we went back to Hempstead when my dad was discharged from the military that my grandfather had a business and my grandmother had a business there.
And that when we got back, my grandfather asked my dad, what are your plans now that the war is over?
And my dad said, I just got out of the service.
I don't have any plans.
And the old man reached in his pocket and gave him the key to his store.
And he said, I want my grandchildren to grow up close to me.
The store is yours.
So I spent years first grade.
through the ninth grade in Hempstead in Waller County.
What kind of store was this?
It was a hardware store that my father operated.
My grandparents were still there, and that my grandfather had about 300 acres of land that he ran a few cows on, and my grandmother had a drug store.
I went to San Marcos Baptist Academy for my sophomore, junior, and senior year, and it was a boarding school, coeducational.
and that the commandant there was a Major Donald W. Carlson, A&M class of, I believe, 1943.
And that is solely how my decision was made to come to Texas A&M.
I was the boy with the highest GPA, we would call it now, but I had the highest average of any boy in high school and received a $50 scholarship, as I recall, for one semester.
But now understand that that was a lot of money back then.
My folks had become school teachers, and so they didn't have a lot of money.
When I came to A&M, I got from them a total of $600 a year and other than that, I was on my own.
During those high school years, in the summer, did you go back and work in the store?
I would go back to Hempstead during the summer years and that I would do some work, but understanding the term spoiled grandchild, that my grandparents would dote on me and I really didn't have to do anything
My grandmother owned a drug store, and so I would probably say with some accuracy that I spent my time eating ice cream and reading funny books during the summer.
Before you came to A&M, did you come up here to visit the campus?
I was here one time during some sort of a storm during the...
year before I was a senior and the only thing that I recollect about the campus is we went into Lupo's when Lupo's was located close to the railroad track in a building that would burn down sometime in the late 60s as I recall.
Do you recall any other impression of the campus and the student body?
At that time, no.
None whatsoever.
I came in as much a virgin and a clean piece of paper as you could be.
So you came up here in the fall of 1961.
The big storm that had hit the Texas coast then was in its latter days and that school began after Labor Day back then.
and ran, the semester ran until mid-January as opposed to now when you go late August till Christmas.
But you got that Christmas break and then came back for finals.
When I got my room assignment, I went over and I was in the area that is, we call it the old area then, it was close to University Drive.
And that there were people living in my room that were refugees from somewhere down on the Texas coast.
And the campus then had suffered some damage too because I can remember that there were limbs out on the roads here on the campus.
And it's difficult to sit here today with nearly 43,000 students
and tell you that I was here when it was the Texas A&M College, or it was the A&M College of Texas, excuse me, A&M College of Texas and had 8,300 students that year and was very much a small, intimate campus.
Do you remember what
kind of gear and other possessions you brought that fall?
Very much so because back then that all you had to bring was socks and underwear and toilet articles that same day within 24 hours we went over to a place that is near the water tower now and I don't remember the names of halls or locations but we had some formation and we were herded over there
and that you got your mattress sack.
And for $8 a semester, you got two pair of shoes, one pair of combat boots, all of your uniforms, your helmet liner, as we would call it in polite company.
The only thing you had to buy, your uniforms, as I recall, were your hats, which back then we called cocksuckers.
Did you bring a typewriter or anything like that?
No.
A radio?
I don't recall.
I don't think so.
Everything was based on privileges.
during that era, and I don't recall that it was a freshman privilege to have a radio or to have much more than 50% less than the bare necessities of life.
And what do you recall about how you were, I'll use the term in quotation marks, how you were welcomed by sophomores and other students?
The thing that I remember most of all is that very first meal on that first night.
that again, in some semblance of a formation, we were herded over to Sebiza Dining Hall.
sitting eight to a table that was served family-style then, and that we all stood behind our chairs until a prayer was given, and then we sat down.
It was explained to us that seniors got, when the food was passed around, ate first, the juniors took their helping second, the sophomores third, the freshmen got theirs last.
But what impressed me while I was waiting for the food is that on the table there were two pies, and a quick study in it
Counting eight people at the table and two pies meant I was going to get a quarter of a pie.
And sure enough, that meal, I did get a quarter of a pie.
It was the last dessert that I had until after Christmas.
That at the meals thereafter, there was always what they called a kush question, kush being the word for dessert, and that you were always asked a kush question, something as innocuous as how many stars on the flag of Texas.
If you said there was one, the answer was no, there are two, one on each side.
But if you said two, there's no, there's one that goes all the way through.
So there was no right answer.
And the only time that I can recall any freshman getting dessert, kush as you would call it, would be that when bread pudding was served, which that and probably sulfuric acid were about as popular, that tables,
within an outfit or tables with another outfit were challenged to cush races where your freshman who could eat the most was pitted against some other class as freshman that could eat the most.
And I can't recall what you got if you won or how you were punished if you lost, but that one freshman would have to represent all his fish buddies and be in a cush eating contest.
This was generally done by putting a tablecloth or a napkin as a bib, and the person had to eat this with their hands held behind their back just face first into the cush, which was a big bowl of bread pudding.
Now, that one you just did was a splendid, that's the splendid kind of material I want to get in here.
Okay.
Let's see.
Now, your outfit, when I came, or may I back up and tell a little story?
Oh, of course, of course.
In high school, the commandant of San Marcos Academy was a Major Don Carlson.
who was one of the finest people and of the people that have influenced me in my life, I would count four men.
He was one of them and was the sole reason I chose to come to A&M.
I came here and knew something about the military because it had been an ROTC.
We'd worn uniforms in high school and had gone through all the drills and everything.
And when I got to A&M, A&M wasn't military at all.
I had no idea what I was into.
The term I could use now would be perhaps they were guerrilla fighters or perhaps that they were the insurgents.
I'm not sure exactly, but military they were not.
And so that I was really pretty much at a loss on this.
But after I got out of high school, I found out
that thinking I might make a military a career, if I were coming to A&M, it seemed an honorable way to have a career.
I enlisted in the Army Reserves.
And back in the summer of 1961, you could enlist and just tell them you were going to college and as long as you took, I suppose, 12 hours or what would qualify as a full load.
took at least 15 hours every semester except one, that you didn't have to go on active duty.
And so when I came to A&M, I did have uniforms and was in the 90th Division.
General Rutter was the commanding officer.
He was the old TO, the olive drab square patch with the red TO on it, which
I would believe would be tough hombres or the Texas Oklahoma division, but anyway that it had a history to it and it held its meetings on Wednesday night of each week at the armory down here on Carson Street in Bryan.
That the memories that I do have as a freshman include that on Wednesday nights I would change out of my fish belt uniform after supper
and I would put on my 90th Division uniform.
And it just wreaked havoc with all the sophomores, especially because they were clueless who this was, except they thought it was a bull, which was the name for the military officers assigned here, but that they didn't know who this was that was wandering up and down the hallways in a military
uniform with a 90th Division patch on it.
And that I carried the charade off pretty well up, oh, probably till Halloween when they figured out it was just Fish Bell in another uniform.
And then the fan became terribly soiled at that point.
But that was one of the early memories is that the military and Texas A&M Corps of Cadets had very little in common.
Now, back to your outfit.
Oh, it was E2.
Did it have a nickname?
It was Rebel E. Rebel E was well known for two reasons.
One is that Reveille,
was always there with the permanent guardians and still are to my knowledge.
The outfit that took care of Reveille was Reveille.
The second was that my sophomore class, the class ahead of me here at A&M, the previous year was the class that had gone over to Caldwell as a group of freshmen and liberated their howitzer off the courthouse lawn.
And in dragging it back to the campus that the tire had come off the rim,
And so they had left a hole in the asphalt from somewhere near the Brazos River Bridge all the way back to the campus, and they were quickly caught.
The punishment was that the unit was divided between two dormitories and the ultimate insult
was to find out was that each outfit had to be on the first floor and floors two three and four were vet students which were among Aggies then not well respected because the vet school was more interested in academics and becoming veterinarians than they were in Good Bull and being Aggies and so this is how you punch someone is you force them into
a colony of lepers.
There not being any lepers here.
They made them live with the vets.
You didn't go to fish camp?
No.
I don't think it existed then.
Okay.
How did you go about registering and selecting courses and so forth that first fall?
divine guidance would be my first answer.
As I recall that every freshman had to basically take math 101, English 105, history 103, that if you were in liberal arts, history 105 I believe it was, but anyway, if you were in liberal arts and everyone then was required to be in the Corps of Cadets, unless there was some mitigating reason, that you would, you got the same thing.
I had to take a PE course, military science,
math, history, and English.
I guess those were my 15 hours.
I believe I had to take biology my freshman year.
As a matter of fact, I know I did because, may I deviate and tell a story, because the second semester, you had to take zoology.
Zoology was, as I recall, two lectures a week and one three-hour lab.
Bell, my name.
In lab, you were paired off alphabetically.
So B, being the, I was the first one, the number two person on the alphabetical list was a junior named Leroy Caffey.
Leroy Caffey was from Rockdale to Thorndale.
It was one of those two towns.
And it was a great puzzle that year because in that, the only course I failed at A&M, that I failed that based on my lab work
Leroy Caffey would take my lab notebook home with him back to Henderson Hall, which was the athletic dorm then, and would copy my lab work, and he made a C in the course, and I've never figured out how I made the F, and he copied my work and made the C. That's always been a great puzzle of the universe to me.
Now, on Leroy, he was a great football player.
Well, I'll give you a little of his history because when I was a senior, he came back,
And he always called me Fish Bell, even in the years of his life.
And he's been dead now four or five years.
But he was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles.
And I followed his career because I knew him personally.
Returned an interception for 100 yards.
His first year was traded after that to Green Bay.
Spent the majority of his football career as a Green Bay Packer.
Played for Vince Lombardi.
Then wrapped it up with the Dallas Cowboys under Tom Landry.
and then came back here.
He died of stomach cancer now, it's been about four years ago, and it's actually buried out here in the College Station City Cemetery.
But when he came back after that year with the Philadelphia Eagles,
that he and I would visit because he still called me Fish Bell and I would be wearing my senior boots tromping across the campus weighing 140 pounds and here was this guy that had beefed up from being a fullback at A&M.
He must have weighed 250 or 260 back then and had a mouthful of gold teeth because up there those pro football players had knocked the rest of them out.
But he and I would visit back then.
Those first semester freshman courses, did you have any memorable instructors that first fall?
I do not remember anyone in particular other than Dr. Lloyd Taylor that I had him
And I cannot remember whether it was my freshman or my sophomore year because there were three of us who had become buddies and are still good friends today.
One is a retired Air Force colonel.
The other is retired from the LSU system, was the head of their history department at the branch at Alexandria.
And the three of us were good friends and took all of our courses together thereafter.
And I know that it must have been my sophomore year because that one of the men was Tisdale, was his last name, and that Dr. Taylor, whom we called Ivy League, Ivy League Taylor, would come in and sit on his desk with his feet swinging and look down and would just check off the role.
He would call the role and you got the here, present, yes sir, that sort of thing, acknowledging your presence.
And Gary Tisdale, who was the brightest by far of the three of us, didn't come to class with any great frequency.
But that just to cover for him, because he was my friend and buddy, that whenever his name was called, I would put my hand halfway across my mouth and say, here.
And on one given occasion that after I had answered for Gary, he showed up for class.
And as he walked through the door without skipping a beat, I believe Taylor said, come in, Mr. Tisdale, and have a seat.
Your answering service has already responded for you.
So I thought I was being so subtle, so swift.
You know, he knew it all the time.
But I don't know that it ever affected my grade.
Do you know why Ivy League Taylor was nicknamed what he was?
He went to Lehigh.
He was a track man.
He was a Scotch drinker.
And that I was told, I have no firsthand knowledge, but supposedly that when he would leave his hometown, wherever that was up in that part of the world,
that he put his sports car into storage, arrived here somehow.
He lived in a one-bedroom apartment at Northgate.
He walked or ran everywhere that he went.
But he apparently came from a very well-to-do family, very profane.
No, no, no.
His button-down collars.
Oh, okay.
Pleated trousers.
Yes.
All that.
Loafers.
The rest of us all had boots and tie shoes, lace shoes.
But he was so fascinating because he only gave two quizzes a year.
And that back then, there was a fourth person that joined us, a guy named Ken McLean, who was a football player.
Called him Dude.
And I think in the record books of A&M, he was the one that caught the Texas Special.
And I think until maybe recently, he held the...
record for the longest pass ever caught dude again because I understand he is a an attorney now I would only want to say kind things and even if it were the truth I wouldn't want to allude to his academic prowess but suffice it to say he was a much better athlete than a student
and that I always thought that Ivy League Taylor treated him kindly, but then we would go in there, and it was always a question of whether his classes were made, because I think you had to have five or eight back then for a class to make, and generally you would meet in a room that would be maybe 16 by 16, and there might just be one or two tables in there, and he was always just a storyteller.
And so I would think today that I enjoy stories and I enjoy telling stories because I would listen to what he had to say.
But it was most entertaining and that my degree in history, if I were to pull a transcript and research back who taught the courses, I would say two-thirds of the courses I took, I took from him.
We got off on him and I was asking about some other important teachers you had in your first year or two, biology, chemistry, English, math.
Excuse me.
Clueless.
I couldn't, I know that I was never in one of your classes.
Garland Bayless was a professor in one class.
It may have been a freshman class, but I really don't remember any.
When I came to A&M, that I had spoken earlier about I got $600 a year in financial help from my parents, and that I drew a check from the Army Reserve.
I worked at the student center.
I waited tables some my freshman year.
And after the end of my freshman year, I got a job in radio at WTAW.
And back then, I think that I had a monthly income of, without help from my parents, a monthly income of over $200.
It cost $50 to enroll in school.
That was tuition.
And Old Army Lou generally sold you your books.
And they were probably the cost of one book now covered all of my school supplies back then.
There was no cost for your clothing.
all of your meals were provided.
I eventually got to working so much that I switched outfits and became a day duck.
But it was because at times that I was working the sign-on shift at a radio station, leaving in time to go to classes, going back in the afternoon, that it wasn't uncommon then that everybody worked and that I worked probably
40 hours a week, back then carrying 15 hours.
But then again, if your next question is going to be, didn't that affect your social life, then the answer is, hey, man, what was a social life at A&M in the 60s?
You were confined to the campus theater or the Skyway, and that was pretty much it.
Let's go back to that freshman fall.
How did you and other freshmen get, and I'll use the word introduced, how did you get introduced to A&M traditions of conduct and fish duties and so forth in the dormitory and in the dining hall?
Old Army Lou put out a
Aggie Fish Handbook, something of that nature.
I wish I still had one.
But it was probably four inches high, probably three inches wide, but it had, you know, 100, 150 questions and answers.
What year was Sabisa Dining Hall built?
I can't remember if it was 1902 or 1914.
I think it was 1914.
Because one of the Cush questions used to be, how many bird nests were there on Sabisa Dining Hall in 1901?
The answer is none.
It wasn't built then.
But you had to answer that.
And most of the education or the imparting of tradition or the way A&M operated, the Corps Cadet operated, was done by yelling at you approximately three inches from your nose.
One of the other questions in ranks that when you would have a formation, that one of the questions that was asked was that apparently that there was a very small museum on the A&M campus back then that had a mummy.
And one of the questions was, what is the name of the mummy?
When I had gone to high school, there was a kid there whose family worked over in the Middle East.
And he spoke a little Arabic, and I'd picked up one word, Salami Lekum, or something like that, that means, hello, how are you?
And so when this particular sophomore stood very close to my face and hollered at me at the top of his lungs, what was the name of the mummy over there?
I said, sir, it is King Salami Lekum.
Well, he didn't know any difference, and he dropped handles with me, which means that I didn't have to call him Mr. Whatever it was.
After that, I could call him by his last name.
We weren't friends, but he thought, you know, if I had gone over there to find out the king's name, and I was just BSing him.
What kind of task were you assigned that first year in the dormitory?
Every freshman had the same task.
There were 43 freshmen in our class in my outfit at the first formation.
We finished with 22 that year.
One of my best friend in my freshman outfit, and he left before Thanksgiving, joined the Marines.
And I saw him after Christmas.
He was from Houston, named Pete Jorgensen.
And I said, Pete, how are the Marines?
He said, a lot easier than being a freshman at A&M.
And so we lost, we had a high attrition rate.
In fact, I think if somebody went back and looked at the stats,
that General Rutter was trying to retain freshmen, and the class of 65, which came in the fall of 61, was the first year they had a 50 percent retention rate.
But understanding the nature of our sophomores, the one that had stolen the cannon off the Caldwell courthouse lawn, split between two dormitories, they had a reputation to uphold, and they ran most of us off.
But the task that we had to do,
Well, I have two that come in story form.
I got out of high school and I weighed 127 pounds, which was not uncommon for somebody 5'7 back then.
The hallways of that particular dormitory and most of them over in that area were lighted with 15-watt light bulbs that were either red when they were purchased or painted red.
One of the most fun games for the seniors was
They would take their brooms and put on their helmet liners and start at one end of the hall with their broom holding the sweeping portion of it on their hip.
And it was kind of a jousting thing that they would have to run as fast as they could and see how many light bulbs they could knock out.
It was the freshman privilege to replace light bulbs.
And there was only one source for light bulbs, the dormitories.
So one of my duties as a freshman, we had a freshman, last name was Roberts, Fish Roberts from Washington, D.C.
I have no idea what his first name was, because everybody was just Fish.
But he was, as memory would serve me today, six foot, six foot one, maybe six foot two, 180, 190, 200 pounds.
And that my job, he and I shared a job.
I would ride on his shoulders between 3 and 4 o'clock in the mornings.
We would get up if we weren't still up.
And we would go to other dormitories and take our trash cans, which there was another name for them, with towels in it.
And I would take a wash rag and I would ride his shoulder and go down the hall so I had enough height that I could reach up and I would unscrew red light bulbs from other
outfits of the dormitories, hallways, and put them in here, putting them in there with the towels in the trash can so that it wouldn't make any noise and wake anybody up.
And he and I stole light bulbs was one of the tasks that I remember.
And I know before we went home at Thanksgiving, before we got breaks, our rooms, which had to be called holes, our holes, were inspected by the sophomores.
And when they opened the drawer
one of the drawers in our chest of drawers there, all it had in it were red light bulbs.
And so this sophomore, and I don't even recall who it was, just dressed me down, just hollered and screamed that, you know, it wasn't my privilege to have all of these light bulbs, but I know that secretly he was probably really proud
that I had gone and gotten all these because, you know, if they said to Fish Jones, Fish Smith, Fish Red, Green, Black, White, you go do this, well, I was the guy that had the light bulbs and that we furnished them there.
The other thing that it was our privilege to do, we only had four juniors, which they call surgery.